README.md, before:

# p_slides
## dead simple way to create semantic, nice to look at slides

  * forget about styling, only think about content
  * p_slides is static files only, it doesn't need a server, installed
    software, pre-compilation or a special editor (unless of course
    *your* favorite and very special editor!)
  * for editing and presenting, there are no external dependencies -
    it's just a html file (therefore it can easily be put into version
    control for example)
  * it's extendable and supports themes(see section "extensibility" for details)
  * write markdown (uses [remarkable.js](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/remarkable))
  * slides are automatically styled nicely (uses [twitter bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/))
  * code samples are syntactically highlighted (uses [jquery syntax](https://github.com/ioquatix/jquery-syntax))
  * generates nice slides in the browser (uses [slidy2](http://www.w3.org/Talks/Tools/Slidy2/))
    * use arrow keys to navigate
    * use the generated 'table of contents' for quick navigation
    * supports printing to pdf (see [presentation.pdf](https://cdn.rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/0.1.5/build/presentation.pdf))
    * every slide has a unique url for easy sharing
    * supports having a timer in the presentation (see meta[name="duration"] element in presentation.html
      * use an empty first slide if you don't want the timer to start
        automatically

# demo

* open the [demo presentation.html](http://cdn.rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/0.1.5/themes/zhaw/example_presentation.html) in your favourite browser
  * tested in current versions of chrome/safari/ff
* print the document to pdf if you need to
 * slides will automatically get separated into pages

# usage

* edit the [kickstart presentation.html](presentation.html) to create your content
  * use [markdown syntax](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)
  * supports tables with [Github flavored markdown syntax](https://help.github.com/articles/organizing-information-with-tables/)
  * create page breaks using '---'

# syntax highlighting

* write your code in &lt;pre&gt; tags
* annotate the given language using a css class

## example code
<pre>
&lt;pre class="syntax c"&gt;
static int foo;
void bar(void) {
    foo = 0;
    while (foo != 255) ; }
&lt;/pre&gt;
</pre>

## becomes
```c
static int foo;
void bar(void) {
    foo = 0;
    while (foo != 255) ; }
```

# syntax highlighting

* if you want to syntax highlight *all* your code in the same way
  then you can uncomment and customize the following line at the
  bottom of the presentation.html file:

<pre>
$('pre &gt; code').parent().addClass("syntax cpp");
</pre>

# extensibility

* p_slides supports themes
* see
  * [example presentation](http://rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/master/themes/zhaw/example_presentation.html)
     * All links within this example are linking to cdn.rawgit.com to
       enable immediate preview from Github. When you're building your
       own presentation, you can use the
       [kickstart presentation.html](presentation.html) which refers
       to local assets.
  * [example presentation pdf](https://cdn.rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/0.1.5/themes/zhaw/zhaw_presentation.pdf)
  * [zhaw theme](https://cdn.rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/tree/0.1.5/themes/zhaw)

---

# rationale

* Five years ago I became a lecturer at the Zurich University of
  applied Sciences
* With this, I was tasked with creating great lectures with good
  presentations and labs
* Looking at the landscape of the popular tools out there, I saw that
  most people are doing WYSIWYG - however, I knew that this was going
  to be a waste of time (I'm not going into this generic argument
  here, if you don't agree, that's absolutely ok)
* I wanted a tool that
  * works well cross-platform
  * works well with version control
  * uses a succinct and well-known markup language (markdown, org-mode, ...)
  * has no dependencies to install for other lecturers
  * allows for demos in the browser with distribution via PDF
  * allows editing with a regular text editor (for me that was VIM for
    well over a decade, now it's Emacs), because this yields the
    greatest typing efficiency
* There was no such thing in 2011, so I created p_slides
* To this day p_slides prevails with regard to the above list
  * There are a lot of other tools out there, but as far as I know,
    they all fail one of the above criteria.

# p_slides design decisions

* a p_slide presentation is only a static file that you can put into
  version control and work on collaboratively with your peers
* p_slides is explicitly dumb
  * it has no requirements to install additional software, pre-compile
    anything or run a server
  * therefore it is completely self-contained/self-hosted and doesn't
    require any complications for less technical users
    * no usage of the command-line is required (no ruby, node, npm,
      browserify, gulp, babel, ...)
    * no compilation step is required
    * no hosting solution is preferred, not even Github Pages

# difference to reveal-js (and other popular options)

* Out of the box reveal-js does not support Markdown Slides. Yes, of
  course they do, but you'll have to write HTML per slide and then
  embed Markdown. With p_slides, you'll write your markdown directly
  inline - no HTML cruft where it doesn't add benefit.

* reveal-js is _much_ bigger whereas p_slides relies on well tested
  and established software. For example many features that you can
  find on the reveal-js README are also included in p_slides, because
  it uses W3Org slidy2. p_slides actually is only very little code
  itself as it glues together very well established and good existing
  libraries. reveal-js does a lot by itself. Both options are valid,
  yet they are different(;




# printing to pdf

## Using a browser

Printing the slides to PDF can be done in any browser that supports
printing to PDF. Choose landscape over portrait and whatever paper size
that looks good. The required paper size differs from Browser to Browser
and OS to OS.

If possible, use one of these browsers: Chromium, Chrome, Safari

## Using phantomjs and pdftk for some automation goodness

If you have **phantomjs** and \`pdftk\` installed, you can use the
included command-line utility:

```shell
./bin/create_pdf.js URL
```

This will create a \`presentation.pdf\` file for the particular slide
deck.

Note that the first slide will be cut, because for us this is usually an
empty slide. That's what pdftk is used for.

Your mileage may vary for how good the resulting PDF is. This relies on
your version of phantomjs and some QT libraries.

## Using wkhtmltopdf and pdftk

If you have \`wkhtmltopdf\` installed, you can use this one-liner to
produce PDFs from the HTML presentation:

```shell

wkhtmltopdf -s A7 --javascript-delay 500 -d 300 -O Landscape URL tmp.pdf
pdftk tmp.pdf cat 2-end output presentation.pdf

```

Note that the first slide will be cut, because for us this is usually an
empty slide. That's what pdftk is used for.

Your mileage may vary for how good the resulting PDF is. This relies on
your version of phantomjs and some QT libraries.


# editing tips
With p_slides you are completely free to use your favorite Editor -
that might be Atom, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++ or anything
really. All of them have good markdown integration - for some of them
please find the documentation directly here:
## Emacs
For Emacs, there is a great
[markdown-mode](http://jblevins.org/projects/markdown-mode/). With
this snippet in your `init.el`, you can automatically enable it. The
snippet also shows how to enable automatic spell checking with [flyspell-mode](https://ftp.gnu.org/old-gnu/Manuals/emacs-20.7/html_node/emacs_97.html).
```elisp
(add-to-list 'auto-mode-alist '("presentation.html" . markdown-mode))
;; If you are into spell-checking
(add-hook 'markdown-mode-hook 'flyspell-mode)
```
## VIM
If you want VIM to automatically use Tim Popes great
[markdown plugin](https://github.com/tpope/vim-markdown), use this
snippet for VIM to automatically register the correct filetype - or
write a better solutions and make me a Pull Request(;

```VimL
au! BufRead,BufNewFile *html,*htm call TestForPSlides()
"Check whether it is a p_slides presentation
function TestForPSlides()
  if match(join(getline(1,'$')), 'p_slides') > 0
    set filetype=markdown
  endif
endfunction
```

---

# development

## upgrade

* create a new tag
* change cdn.rawgit.com links to assets (examples and README) to refer to new tag

# contributors

* Alain M Lafon ([github](https://github.com/munen))
* Tomáš Pospíšek ([github](https://github.com/tpo))

---

# license

| Library | License |
| ------- | ------- |
| [slidy2](http://www.w3.org/Talks/Tools/Slidy2/) | [W3C software license](http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-software) |
| [jquery-syntax](https://github.com/ioquatix/jquery-syntax) | MIT |
| [bootstrap](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap) | MIT |
| [remarkable](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/remarkable) | MIT |

p_slides is licensed under the [GNU AGPL](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Document PDF automated PDF export

README.md, after:

# p_slides
## dead simple way to create semantic, nice to look at slides

  * forget about styling, only think about content
  * p_slides is static files only, it doesn't need a server, installed
    software, pre-compilation or a special editor (unless of course
    *your* favorite and very special editor!)
  * for editing and presenting, there are no external dependencies -
    it's just a html file (therefore it can easily be put into version
    control for example)
  * it's extendable and supports themes(see section "extensibility" for details)
  * write markdown (uses [remarkable.js](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/remarkable))
  * slides are automatically styled nicely (uses [twitter bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/))
  * code samples are syntactically highlighted (uses [jquery syntax](https://github.com/ioquatix/jquery-syntax))
  * generates nice slides in the browser (uses [slidy2](http://www.w3.org/Talks/Tools/Slidy2/))
    * use arrow keys to navigate
    * use the generated 'table of contents' for quick navigation
    * supports printing to pdf (see [presentation.pdf](https://cdn.rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/0.1.5/build/presentation.pdf))
    * every slide has a unique url for easy sharing
    * supports having a timer in the presentation (see meta[name="duration"] element in presentation.html
      * use an empty first slide if you don't want the timer to start
        automatically

# demo

* open the [demo presentation.html](http://cdn.rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/0.1.5/themes/zhaw/example_presentation.html) in your favourite browser
  * tested in current versions of chrome/safari/ff
* print the document to pdf if you need to
 * slides will automatically get separated into pages

# usage

* edit the [kickstart presentation.html](presentation.html) to create your content
  * use [markdown syntax](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)
  * supports tables with [Github flavored markdown syntax](https://help.github.com/articles/organizing-information-with-tables/)
  * create page breaks using '---'

# syntax highlighting

* write your code in &lt;pre&gt; tags
* annotate the given language using a css class

## example code
<pre>
&lt;pre class="syntax c"&gt;
static int foo;
void bar(void) {
    foo = 0;
    while (foo != 255) ; }
&lt;/pre&gt;
</pre>

## becomes
```c
static int foo;
void bar(void) {
    foo = 0;
    while (foo != 255) ; }
```

# syntax highlighting

* if you want to syntax highlight *all* your code in the same way
  then you can uncomment and customize the following line at the
  bottom of the presentation.html file:

<pre>
$('pre &gt; code').parent().addClass("syntax cpp");
</pre>

# extensibility

* p_slides supports themes
* see
  * [example presentation](http://rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/master/themes/zhaw/example_presentation.html)
     * All links within this example are linking to cdn.rawgit.com to
       enable immediate preview from Github. When you're building your
       own presentation, you can use the
       [kickstart presentation.html](presentation.html) which refers
       to local assets.
  * [example presentation pdf](https://cdn.rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/0.1.5/themes/zhaw/zhaw_presentation.pdf)
  * [zhaw theme](https://cdn.rawgit.com/munen/p_slides/tree/0.1.5/themes/zhaw)

---

# rationale

* Five years ago I became a lecturer at the Zurich University of
  applied Sciences
* With this, I was tasked with creating great lectures with good
  presentations and labs
* Looking at the landscape of the popular tools out there, I saw that
  most people are doing WYSIWYG - however, I knew that this was going
  to be a waste of time (I'm not going into this generic argument
  here, if you don't agree, that's absolutely ok)
* I wanted a tool that
  * works well cross-platform
  * works well with version control
  * uses a succinct and well-known markup language (markdown, org-mode, ...)
  * has no dependencies to install for other lecturers
  * allows for demos in the browser with distribution via PDF
  * allows editing with a regular text editor (for me that was VIM for
    well over a decade, now it's Emacs), because this yields the
    greatest typing efficiency
* There was no such thing in 2011, so I created p_slides
* To this day p_slides prevails with regard to the above list
  * There are a lot of other tools out there, but as far as I know,
    they all fail one of the above criteria.

# p_slides design decisions

* a p_slide presentation is only a static file that you can put into
  version control and work on collaboratively with your peers
* p_slides is explicitly dumb
  * it has no requirements to install additional software, pre-compile
    anything or run a server
  * therefore it is completely self-contained/self-hosted and doesn't
    require any complications for less technical users
    * no usage of the command-line is required (no ruby, node, npm,
      browserify, gulp, babel, ...)
    * no compilation step is required
    * no hosting solution is preferred, not even Github Pages

# difference to reveal-js (and other popular options)

* Out of the box reveal-js does not support Markdown Slides. Yes, of
  course they do, but you'll have to write HTML per slide and then
  embed Markdown. With p_slides, you'll write your markdown directly
  inline - no HTML cruft where it doesn't add benefit.

* reveal-js is _much_ bigger whereas p_slides relies on well tested
  and established software. For example many features that you can
  find on the reveal-js README are also included in p_slides, because
  it uses W3Org slidy2. p_slides actually is only very little code
  itself as it glues together very well established and good existing
  libraries. reveal-js does a lot by itself. Both options are valid,
  yet they are different(;




# printing to pdf

## Using a browser

Printing the slides to PDF can be done in any browser that supports
printing to PDF. Choose landscape over portrait and whatever paper size
that looks good. The required paper size differs from Browser to Browser
and OS to OS.

If possible, use one of these browsers: Chromium, Chrome, Safari

## Automated export as PDF

If you have **chrome/chromium**, you can automate the export:

```shell
chromium --headless --disable-gpu --print-to-pdf=presentation.pdf "URL"
```

This will create a \`presentation.pdf\` file for the particular slide
deck.

If you want to, you can automatically cut the first slide, because for
us this is usually an empty slide. That's what **pdftk** is used for.

```shell
pdftk presentation.pdf cat 2-end output final.pdf
```

# editing tips

With p_slides you are completely free to use your favorite Editor -
that might be Atom, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++ or anything
really. All of them have good markdown integration - for some of them
please find the documentation directly here:

## Emacs

For Emacs, there is a great
[markdown-mode](http://jblevins.org/projects/markdown-mode/). With
this snippet in your `init.el`, you can automatically enable it. The
snippet also shows how to enable automatic spell checking with [flyspell-mode](https://ftp.gnu.org/old-gnu/Manuals/emacs-20.7/html_node/emacs_97.html).

```elisp
(add-to-list 'auto-mode-alist '("presentation.html" . markdown-mode))
;; If you are into spell-checking
(add-hook 'markdown-mode-hook 'flyspell-mode)
```

## VIM
If you want VIM to automatically use Tim Popes great
[markdown plugin](https://github.com/tpope/vim-markdown), use this
snippet for VIM to automatically register the correct filetype - or
write a better solutions and make me a Pull Request(;

```VimL
au! BufRead,BufNewFile *html,*htm call TestForPSlides()
"Check whether it is a p_slides presentation
function TestForPSlides()
  if match(join(getline(1,'$')), 'p_slides') > 0
    set filetype=markdown
  endif
endfunction
```

---

# development

## upgrade

* create a new tag
* change cdn.rawgit.com links to assets (examples and README) to refer to new tag

# contributors

* Alain M Lafon ([github](https://github.com/munen))
* Tomáš Pospíšek ([github](https://github.com/tpo))

---

# license

| Library | License |
| ------- | ------- |
| [slidy2](http://www.w3.org/Talks/Tools/Slidy2/) | [W3C software license](http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-software) |
| [jquery-syntax](https://github.com/ioquatix/jquery-syntax) | MIT |
| [bootstrap](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap) | MIT |
| [remarkable](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/remarkable) | MIT |

p_slides is licensed under the [GNU AGPL](LICENSE).
